ok this is the chopstick the floogle
Bauer chopstick or the through the
strings voicing needle this is a great
tool solid brass the has a hex wrench of
course at one end there is a needle from
the coming from the brass that's used to
voice hammers voice piano hammers the
cap itself is designed to accept the
other end of the tool and hold it with a
couple of orings that are inserted into
the cap inside the cap to hold it snug
so that it won't fall off inside the cap
also is a small hole for holding the hex
key for changing the needles on the tool
so it's a very small hex key in a very
small screw but it doesn't take much to
hold this needle in place so insert it
into the cap and of course placed on the
other end while you're working this tool
is used to insert through the strings of
a grand piano to voice a hammer to
insert into the hammer and the way that
this is done is that first you want to
be able to you know you want to have
something nice and firm to push on you
know you can just go straight down and
push on the hammer and insert it that
way a lot of people including myself
like to put the hammer into check first
so you would play the the hammer and put
it into check here here's the back check
and to place the hammer to check and
then to push the hammer down and to
voice it this way like the sugar coder
this is used for doing shallow needling
and of course the hammer will push sorry
the hammer will push down against the
check and put it farther and farther
into a check until it's a more stable
surface to work on so like the sugar
coder this technique typically works on
shallow
strike point needling or where the
hammer would come into contact with the
string so up at the top of the hammer or
the apex of the hammer is where you
would do but most of your needling with
a sugar coder there's many other
techniques like I said with the sugar
coder i would spend a lot of time maybe
on the back side of the hammer but you
can do some front sight as well and
another technique that was taught to buy
taught me by a great technician is to
voice down the edge of the hammer both
edges and if you do that it will help
improve the sustained of that particular
note so if you find a dead note in your
piano that's just not giving you a whole
lot of life you can voice down the edges
like I'm doing here of the hammer then
that would be on the front side of the
hammer and increase the sustainer open
up the the tone and the piano or what's
sometimes called the bloom so it's a
great technique and it's a great tool
you don't have to pull the action out of
the piano to use this tool to do voicing
and the nice thing about that is that if
you're in a concert situation or or
you're tuning the piano before a concert
and you find one note that you think
needs a little bit of work simply pull
this tool out which by the way I keep in
my tuning kit pull this tool out and do
what you got to do to get some tone and
some life back into that string or that
note so there you go a great tool when
you're done the cap itself has a spot at
the top of the cap to accommodate the
needle so that it won't you know blunt
or dull the needle so simply insert the
needle and back into the cap and it
won't come off unless you pull it off
insert the needle back into the cap
and put it away for storage so there it
is the floogle bauer through the strings
voicing tool or what we commonly refer
to as a chopstick needler by flugel
bauer piano supply